Doc feedback and suggestions (#409)
haskellfoundation/error-message-index: CONTRIBUTING.md

The message index is in the directory `message-index`.

### Using a Recent-Enough Tool

If you want to contribute to the error message index, make sure that the version of the tool you have installed on your system is new enough. See the README for a table of supported versions.

You can manage multiple versions of tools on your system using [GHCup](https://www.haskell.org/ghcup/).

## If You Know Which Message You Want to Document

Let's say you ran across `GHC-00000` in the wild, but it wasn't yet documented
in the Haskell Message Index. You know a little about it and would like to help
out.

The simplest thing to do is create a new file in this repository,
`message-index/messages/GHC-00000/index.md`, and write your documentation there.

Here is a template you can use for the file:

> [FIXME: providing a tool would be a lot nicer]

Reviewer: I'm not quite sure what is meant here. Can you elaborate?

Author: I meant I would like to replace "Here is a template you can use..." with "Here are the instructions for initializing new file." I guess if #408 takes flight, it could be used here.

```
---

> title: [FIXME: Is this something written by the contributor, or does it come from the tool?]

Reviewer: This is written by the contributor

Reviewer: It's used as the title for the docs

> summary: [FIXME: Is this something written by the contributor, or does it come from the tool?]

Reviewer: Also written by the contributor - it's used in the "summary" column in the table on the main page

> severity: [FIXME]: What are the possible values here?

Reviewer: `error` and `warning`

> introduced: <!-- Optional, but good to add if you know when the message was added to the tool -->

Reviewer: This is when the code was added, not the message!

Once you've identified an issue you'd like to work on, refer to the previous section for how to get started.

### Helping With the Site Itself

There's more to the Message Index than messages!

- Issues related to improving the site, the workflow for contributing, or other information are tagged `error-message-index-site`: https://github.com/haskellfoundation/error-message-index/labels/error-message-index-site
- Issues related to improving, clarifying, or extending existing documentation are tagged `error-message-index-improvements`: https://github.com/haskellfoundation/error-message-index/labels/error-message-index-improvements

The site is generated using [Hakyll](https://jaspervdj.be/hakyll/).
Pull requests that make it easier to understand or navigate are very
welcome. The main generator `site.hs` is formatted using
[Ormolu](https://github.com/tweag/ormolu).

## Reference: The Anatomy of a Message

The Haskell Message Index is generated from a collection of files on

> disk using Hakyll. From these files, descriptions of the message are generated,
> as well as examples of how to handle them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
disk using Hakyll. The contents of these files, including the overall description and the examples,
is used to generate both the individual description pages and the main page of the site.
```

Reviewer: (the examples aren't generated from the files - the files contain the examples)

Author: Oh—as I see it, the examples *are* generated from the files, because the example is the whole shebang

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/538538/233352580-a6663f38-909a-4ef5-8ddd-e1b01141e0c4.png)

Taken as a whole, that box isn't contained in any one file.

Reviewer: I think that this kind of hair-splitting could end up going either way, so we should find a formulation that isn't as easily mis-parsed. What about "The complete documentation page is generated from the written description and the example files." or something like that?

> Inside the top-level of the site source, there is a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inside the top level of the site source, there is a
```

You can also use the `makeFolder.sh` templating script. Usage is as follows:

> [FIXME: makeFolder.sh is GHC-specific]

Reviewer: I think #408 can take care of this nicely.

Author: Excellent :)

example. The `index.md` file should explain how the files illustrate
the message.

## Reference: How to Document a GHC Error Code

[FIXME I don't know how, or why, to follow these steps. Can someone who's submitted a

> message explain it?]

Reviewer: As far as "how" goes, it relies on having the GHC source available. I think that we used to have people get that in this guide (which was written before the error codes branch was merged, which was before the 9.6 release), but now we need to clean it up.

The "why" is that it's not always clear how to trigger a message simply based on its string rendering. The GHC test suite, however, is a good source of programs that exhibit the message. Grepping the "expected errors" text is a way to find examples.

We should probably go through this and see if there's a better way since Sam's reworking of the code assignment mechanism. Probably grepping the tests for the code is enough now.

Author: I can't remember Sam's handle, but do you think he might want to weigh in? Should this section just be removed, perhaps?

Reviewer: I don't know what he's called over here - he's sheaf on Gitlab. But I don't think we need his feedback - we can just try grepping the test suite for messages that include the desired code string :-)
